## Thoughts on bad rules
*v0.9.6*

**Preface**: This article is full of hyperbole, unsubstantiated claims and other nonsense. It does however, quite effectively convey some of the original frustrations the founder of *CCGR* experienced, leading to this project.

There are hundreds (if not thousands) of games available for a standard 52-card deck. However, this only a half-truth: Most games are simply variants of other, older games. In fact, many related card games are so similar, that one could claim they are the same game. This is not necessarily a bad thing and it makes sense from a anthropological standpoint, cultures constantly bleeding into each other. But from a purely mathematical view, it's lazy: These 52 cards have enough embedded information to make countless more, unique games. So why don't we make them?
Many of the well-established rules that live within regular games survive the test of time, regardless of how much sense they make. Things lurk within card games, the die-hard residue of frankly awful game design...

**Luck exclusivity** encompasses all games that only ever really depend on luck. This can sometimes be obscured by rule complexity but will reveal itself upon playthroughs. In short, these games have zero player agency. - In other words, they are a waste of time.
A classic example is *War* which many agree is simply a way to kill time or introduce kids to card games. This game is essentially just a very long series of coin flips that (sometimes) end with a winner.
Thus, luck as a sole base is a no go. However, luck combined with others core elements is pretty much always a good idea.

**Arbitrary rankings** is something that can be found in many games and can in some cases be the only difference between 2 wholly independent games. More often than not, there is no rhyme or reason to this rule and it only yields one single thing: Rules overhead. It makes it harder to actually understand, - and eventually play the game. It stands to reason to follow the widely understood ranking that 2 is lowest, king is highest and ace can be both.

**Following suit** is one the most widely used conventions in card games. The sheer amount of games that use this mechanic is staggering and it is the bedrock of pretty much every trick-taker in existence - you might even argue that *trick-taking* and *following suit* are two sides of the same coin.
The premise is fairly simple: Whoever plays the first card in a round determines what suit any following card must have. But, since there is no guarantee anyone *can* fulfill this requirement, players are allowed to play other cards if they can't follow. The good thing is that this makes it possible to deduce valuable information about the other player's cards as you are not allowed to look at these directly.
The adverse result is a game where cheating is not only extremely easy, but also very powerful. It also makes it prone to errors. Players shouldn't be able to do anything that breaks the game - intentional or not - without other players noticing right away. Ensuring this noy only eliminates cheating but also makes the learning process faster. The solution is obvious: Remove the requirement to follow suit or integrate dishonesty as a valid strategy.
Most people will quickly retort, saying that if you play with cheaters, maybe play with other people. I would argue that this is a roundabout way of looking at the problem as ultimately, most games aren't about trust, they're about deceit and we should embrace this. So, instead of trying to enforce integrity on your players, let them stab each other in the back. Embrace this dynamic and not only make the game easier to play, but also more fun.

**Convoluted scoring** is a broad term, it usually boils down to scoring that are either really hard to remember or happens so often that you need to constantly keep tally and do math. Or even worse: Both. Often, it will glue you to the notepad half the time as you try to keep up with the actual game.
A lot of games have zero qualms about issuing asinine point scores to wildly different scenarios that are mostly impossible to deduce. Here, nothing will help you other than rawdogging the rules and simply remembering how points are handed out. Or reference sheets.
A subset of these offenders also arbitrarily inflate scores by some generic multiplier, usually 10. It doesn't take a mathematical genius to simply reduce all the numbers by their lowest common denominator and realize the end result is exactly the same.
Scoring should be almost instantly comprehendable, easily calculated and only rarely depend on a notepad. If no winner is instantly identifiable, calculate one using just the cards for reference.

**Excessive edge cases** are found within games where the rules seem to have mutated into an inconsistent mess in the name of balance. Balance is a hugely important part of board games, but where some designers apparently *add* rules to handle problems arisen from playtesting, in my opinion, it should always be done the other way around; weed out the root of the problem and fix the rule from the ground up. This is the long way to a functioning ruleset but it pays dividends as the game becomes better in pretty much every way.
